<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xt="http://ns.inria.org/xtiger">
<head>
	<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
	<title>XTiger XML Demo Editor explanation file</title>
	<style>
		body {
			margin: 5%;
			padding: 1em 2em;
			border: 2px solid lightgray;
		}
		h1 {
			text-align: center;
		}
		#copyright {
			text-align: center;
			color: gray;
		}
		#copyright > a {
			color: gray;			
		}
	</style>	
</head>

<body>
	<h1>XTiger XML Demo Editor</h1>
	<p>This is an application that can be run directly from your local file system (URL starting with <tt>file:///</tt>) with Firefox. 
	<strong>For Firefox >= 3</strong> you need to authorize access to local URL from the XMLHTTPRequest object. To do this type 
	<tt>about:config</tt> in the URL bar then click on <tt>security.fileuri.strict_origin_policy</tt> to set it to <tt>false</tt>
(source: <a href="http://kb.mozillazine.org/Security.fileuri.strict_origin_policy" target="blank">mozillazine.org</a>). You most probably will 
not be able to use it from the local file system on the other browsers (such as Safari or Internet Explorer) 
as they will not allow the application to access local files. For instance Safari will just show them in the finder.</p>
<p>On the contrary if you start the application from a Web server (URL starting with <tt>http://</tt>),
including a WebDav server, it should work on most of the browsers. For instance it works for Internet Explorer, but only 
if you use the version of the application that uses no iframe (see the window title bar).</p>
	<ul>
		<li>Page : enter a file URL to open a template file as a document to edit (or use Page shortcut)</li> 
		<li>Page shortcut : select directly a predefined template file</li> 
		<li>[Visualize] : open the selected template file</li>
		<li>[Dump] : dump the XML content of the current document inside a popup window.</li> 
		<li>[Input] : enter XML data from a popup window to the current document</li> 	
		<li>[Save] : prompts a dialog to select a local XML file name and saves the XML content to it (Firefox only)</li>
		<li>[Load] : prompts a dialog to select a local XML file name and loads XML data from it (Firefox only)</li>
	</ul>
	<p>The [Preferences] button opens a pannel with several actions</p>
	<ul>
		<li>Template repository [Ok] : enter the path for the default XTiger XML template folder (displayed in Page shortcut)</li> 
		<li>File name [save] [load] [post]: save/load XML content in the current document, depending on the browser, [save] and [load] may work only if you have opened the application from a local server such as the one proposed in <kbd>scripts/server</kbd>. 
		[post] asks the server to only dump the data without saving it.</li> 
	</ul>	
	<p>NOTE: you can use the application directly from a local volume (document URL starting
	with <kbd>file://</kbd>), or you can copy it and launch it from a Web server such as the one in <kbd>scripts/server</kbd>.</p>

	<p>By default template files listed in the "Page shortcut" popup menu are stored in the "templates" folder.</p>
	
	<p id="copyright">AXEL editor, by Stéphane Sire, <a href="http://media.epfl.ch" target="_new">Media Research</a></p>
</body>
</html>
