<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xt="http://ns.inria.org/xtiger" xml:lang="en">
  <head>                  
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge,chrome=1" />

    <title>The "video" plugin</title>

    <xt:head version="1.1" templateVersion="1.0" label="Demo">
    </xt:head>  
    
    <style type="text/css">
      span.video {
        display: inline-block; /* not working on IE : vertical margins will not be applied neither */
        vertical-align: middle;
        margin: 0 20px 10px 20px;
      }
    </style>

    <!-- template enrichment : extracts and generates xt:attribute and xt:use sample code -->
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../shared/demo.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../3rd-part/jquery/js/jquery-1.7.1.min.js">//</script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../shared/demo.js">//</script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p class="warning">You must have a live Internet connection to actually see the videos from YouTube.</p>

    <h1>The "video" plugin</h1>
    
    <p>The <code>"video"</code> plugin is a video URL entry field. The video is shown inside an embedded video player. When the mouse is passed over it displays a popup window lens around the player that allows to change the video URL.</p>
    
    <p>Currently this plugin is limited to You Tube video URLs. There is also a limitation in some browsers that do not allows to play the video (the mask used to detect mouse over filters out events).</p>

    <h2>Parameters</h2>

    <ul class="parameters">
      <li><var>lang</var> (<code><b>fr_FR</b></code>) : lang's code for player's GUI (must respect the video's provider's standards)</li>
      <li><var>inputFieldMessage</var> (<code><b>Paste the video's link here</b></code>) : text appearing in the input field when the model does not contain a valid URL</li>
      <li><var>width</var> (<code>number</code>) : width of the embedded video player</li>
      <li><var>height</var> (<code>number</code>) : height of the flash video player</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Empty default content</h2>

    <div class="demo extract">
      <xt:use types="video" label="Video1"/>
    </div>

    <h2>Default content set to a video URL</h2>
    
    <p><i>Note that in that case clicking on "delete" is possible even if the video is the default one, this is a bug</i></p>

    <div class="demo extract">
      <xt:use types="video" label="Video2">http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VUVU14GmW18&amp;hl=fr_FR&amp;fs=1&amp;</xt:use>
    </div>

    <h2>Optional video</h2>

    <div class="demo extract">
      <p>Please select a video : 
        <span class="video">
          <xt:use types="video" label="Video3" option="unset" param="width=300; height=200">URL from YouTube</xt:use>
        </span>
      </p>
    </div>

    <h2>Repeated video</h2>

    <div class="demo extract">
      <p>Please select a video : 
         <xt:repeat minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="*" label="Collection">
          <span class="video"><xt:menu-marker />
            <xt:use types="video" label="Video">URL from YouTube</xt:use>
          </span>
        </xt:repeat>
      </p>
    </div>
    
    <hr/>
    <p>That template also uses the <em>inline-block</em> CSS style property which has been reported not working on Internet Explorer. In that case you should prefer <em>float</em> layout.</p>  
  </body> 
</html>
