<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xt="http://ns.inria.org/xtiger" xml:lang="en">
<head>                  
  <!-- Use UTF-8 and avoid the xml protocol declaration at the top for Internet Explorer -->
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=8;" />   
  <meta name="description" content="XTiger XML document template" />
  <meta name="keywords" content="template, XTiger" />

  <title>XTiger XML and AXEL Interactive (GUI) test case : 'richtext' primitive editor plugin</title>
  
  <xt:head version="1.1" templateVersion="1.0" label="Root">
  </xt:head>
    
    <style type="text/css">
      body {
      width: 80%;
      margin-left: 10%;
      border: 1px solid grey;
      padding: 15px;
      }
      .xtt-editable {
      padding: 5px;
      border: 1px dashed green;
      }
    </style>                         
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../axel/axel.css" type="text/css"/>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../axel/axel.js"></script> 

    <script type="text/javascript">
      var form;
      function init() {
        form = new xtiger.util.Form('../../axel/bundles');
        form.setTemplateSource(document);
        form.enableTabGroupNavigation();
        if (! form.transform()) { alert(this .form.msg); }
      }
      function dump () {
    		var log = new xtiger.util.LogWin ("XML instance data", 400, 600, true);	
    		log.dump(form);
  	  }
      xtdom.addEventListener(window,  'load', init, false);
    </script>
    
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Interactive (GUI) test case for <tt>'richtext'</tt> editor</h1>
    
    <span style="text-decoration: underline; cursor: pointer" onclick="dump">Dump</span>
    
    <p>There are tested various situation involving the rich text editor, that is (at the moment),
      the 3-tuple composed with the model, the lens device and its dedicated wrapper.</p>
    
    <p>The different situations atre about the way the lens apparition is triggered, the lens
      content and display (inline, single paragraph and multiples paragraphs) and the lens padding (currently not
      supported).</p>
    
    <div style="margin: 50px 10%; border: 3px dashed red; text-align: center">
      <h3>WARNING</h3>
      <p>Under Firefox (3.5), when using the local support for AJAX (no use of a web server), the template extension <em>must</em> be .xhtml, and not .xtd.
        The <code>contentEditable</code> property that support the whole of the rich text editor is
        not supported otherwise !</p>
    </div>
    
    <h2>Simple editors</h2>
    <p>There are tested editors outside any repeat or optional statements.</p>
    
    <h3>Simple editors, <code>trigger="click"</code>(default), <code>display="block"</code>(default)</h3>
    <p>First loaded with unstyled content without a &lt;p&gt;</p>
    <div style="width: 650px">
      <xt:use types="richtext" label="richtext-1A">
        Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed non diam sit amet libero tristique pharetra non a erat. Sed enim purus, auctor et feugiat sed, lobortis in lorem. Vestibulum eget odio lacinia metus vulputate eleifend eu sit amet libero. Praesent et dui eu velit imperdiet euismod.
      </xt:use>
    </div>
    <p>Then loaded with unstyled content <em>with</em> a &lt;p&gt;</p>
    <div style="width: 650px">
      <xt:use types="richtext" label="richtext-1B">
        <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed non diam sit amet libero tristique pharetra non a erat. Sed enim purus, auctor et feugiat sed, lobortis in lorem. Vestibulum eget odio lacinia metus vulputate eleifend eu sit amet libero. Praesent et dui eu velit imperdiet euismod.</p>
      </xt:use>
    </div>
    <p>Then loaded with Firefox-styled content (reference format)</p>
    <div style="width: 650px">
      <xt:use types="richtext" label="richtext-1C">
        <p><span style="font-weight: bold">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</span> consectetur adipiscing elit. <span
          style="font-style: italic">Sed non diam sit amet libero</span>tristique pharetra non a erat. <span
            style="text-decoration: underline">Sed enim purus</span> auctor et feugiat sed, lobortis in lorem. Vestibulum eget odio lacinia metus vulputate eleifend eu sit amet libero. <span style="font-style: italic; font-weight: bold">Praesent et dui</span> eu velit imperdiet euismod.</p>
      </xt:use>
    </div>
    <p>Then loaded with Opera-styled content (use capital &lt;P&gt;)</p>
    <div style="width: 650px">
      <xt:use types="richtext" label="richtext-1D">
        <P><STRONG>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</STRONG> consectetur adipiscing elit. <EM>Sed non diam sit amet libero</EM>tristique pharetra non a erat. <U>Sed enim purus</U> auctor et feugiat sed, lobortis in lorem. Vestibulum eget odio lacinia metus vulputate eleifend eu sit amet libero. <EM><STRONG>Praesent et dui</STRONG></EM> eu velit imperdiet euismod.</P>
      </xt:use>
    </div>
    <p>Then loaded with IE-styled content</p>
    <div style="width: 650px">
      <xt:use types="richtext" label="richtext-1E">
        <p><b>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</b> consectetur adipiscing elit. <i>Sed non diam sit amet libero</i>tristique pharetra non a erat. <u>Sed enim purus</u> auctor et feugiat sed, lobortis in lorem. Vestibulum eget odio lacinia metus vulputate eleifend eu sit amet libero. <i><b>Praesent et dui</b></i> eu velit imperdiet euismod.</p>
      </xt:use>
    </div>
    
    <h3>Simple editor, <code>trigger="mouseover"</code>, <code>display="block"</code>(default)</h3>
    
    <div style="width: 650px">
      <xt:use types="richtext" label="richtext-2" param="trigger=mouseover">
        <p><span style="font-weight: bold">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</span> consectetur adipiscing elit. <span
          style="font-style: italic">Sed non diam sit amet libero</span>tristique pharetra non a erat. <span
            style="text-decoration: underline">Sed enim purus</span> auctor et feugiat sed, lobortis in lorem. Vestibulum eget odio lacinia metus vulputate eleifend eu sit amet libero. <span style="font-style: italic; font-weight: bold">Praesent et dui</span> eu velit imperdiet euismod.</p>
      </xt:use>
    </div>
    
    <h3>Simple editor, <code>trigger="click"</code>, <code>display="inline"</code></h3>
    <p>Now, let's try an inlined editor. <xt:use types="richtext" param="display=inline;trigger=click"
      label="richtext-3A">Here it is.</xt:use> What do you think of it?</p>
    
    <h2>Repeatable editors</h2>
    
    <p>Let's repeat some paragraphs now</p>
    
    <p>First, inside a repeater with a label</p>
    
    <xt:repeat minOccurs="1" label="repeater1">
      <p>
        <xt:menu-marker/>
        <xt:use types="richtext" label="rep-p"> I am repeatable ! </xt:use>
      </p>
    </xt:repeat>
    
    <p>then, inside a repeater <em>without</em> a label</p>
    
    <xt:repeat minOccurs="1">
      <p>
        <span style="float: left"><xt:menu-marker/></span>
        <xt:use types="richtext" label="rep-p2"> I am repeatable too ! </xt:use>
      </p>
    </xt:repeat>
    
    <h2>Optional editor</h2>
    
    <p>There is an optional editor build as a repeat 0:1 item</p>
    
    <xt:repeat minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="1" label="repeater_opt">
      <xt:use types="richtext" label="opt_1">
        <p>You can repeat me zero or one time. Not much of a repetition, is it ?</p>
      </xt:use>
    </xt:repeat>
    
    <p>Now a "true" optional editor</p>
    
    <xt:use types="richtext" label="opt_2" option="set"> I'm set by default, but you can unset me. </xt:use>
    
  </body>
</html>
