<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xt="http://ns.inria.org/xtiger" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge,chrome=1" />

    <title>The "date" filter</title>

    <xt:head version="1.1" templateVersion="1.0" label="Demo">
    </xt:head>

    <!-- BEGIN transformation -->
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
          href="../../3rd-part/jquery/css/ui-lightness/jquery-ui-1.10.4.custom.min.css"  charset="utf-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../axel/axel.css"></link>

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../3rd-part/jquery/js/jquery-1.7.1.min.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../3rd-part/jquery/js/jquery-ui-1.10.4.custom.min.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../axel/axel.js"></script>

    <script type="text/javascript">
      (function () {
        function init() {
          $axel.setup({ bundlesPath : '../axel/bundles', enableTabGroupNavigation: true });
          $axel('body').transform();
        }
        jQuery(init);
      }());
    </script>
    <!-- END transformation -->

    <!-- template enrichment : extracts and generates xt:attribute and xt:use sample code -->
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../shared/demo.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8" src="../shared/demo.js">//</script>
  </head>
  <body>

    <p class="warning">IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR DEVELOPERS: this is a template that can only be used with jQuery/jQuery-ui/AXEL libraries sitting directly inside the same window (and not inside a parent window such as when opening inside an iframe) because of jQuery datepicker limitations. Thus for that reason it has been written as a self-transformed template with the required libraries included as you can see in its source code.</p>

    <h1>The "date" filter</h1>

    <p>The <code>"date"</code> filter turns a text entry field into a field for selecting a date using a calendar or the keyboard. It uses the <a href="http://jqueryui.com/demos/datepicker/" target="_new">jQuery UI Datepicker</a>, hence it depends on jQuery and jQuery UI. </p>

    <p>This filter is compatible with the <code>"text"</code> plugin.</p>

    <h2>Parameters</h2>

    <ul class="parameters">
      <li><var>date_region</var> (<code><b>fr</b></code>) : specifies the user interface language (currently only 'fr', but you can edit the <code>filters/date.js</code> source code to add another region)</li>
      <li><var>date_format</var> (<code><b>ISO_8601</b></code>) : specifies the date format used in XML output (read and write). You can use any datepicker date format string (e.g. 'dd/mm/yy'), or a $.datepicker constant name such as <code>ISO_8601</code> (others are <code>ATOM, COOKIE, RFC_822, RFC_850, RFC_1036, RFC_1123, RFC_2822, RSS, TICKS, TIMESTAMP, W3C</code>)</li>
      <li><var>minDate</var> (<code>undefined</code>) : lower bound on the date that can be entered (in <var>date_region</var> format), the special value <tt>today</tt> is converted to the current day</li>
      <li><var>maxDate</var> (<code>undefined</code>) : upper bound on the date that can be entered (in <var>date_region</var> format), the special value <tt>today</tt> is converted to the current day</li>
      <li><var>beforeShow</var> (<code>undefined</code>) : to be documented</li>
    </ul>
    
    <p>The special default value <samp>today</samp> will cause the default value to be replaced by the current day.</p>

    <h2>Javascript API</h2>

    <p>The filter creates a <tt>configure</tt> method which can be used to programmaticaly set the various parameters on a given plugin instance at runtime.</p>

    <h2>Example with <var>maxDate</var> set to today</h2>

    <p>In this example the calendar region (<samp>date_region</samp> parameter) and format (parameter <samp>date_format</samp>) are set to "fr" and "ISO_8601".</p>

    <p>The <var>maxDate</var> parameter is set to <samp>today</samp> to set the upper limit to the current day.</p>

    <div class="demo extract">
      <p>Date :
        <xt:use types="text" label="MaxDateToday" param="filter=date;date_region=fr;date_format=ISO_8601;maxDate=today"/>
      </p>
    </div>

    <h2>Example with <var>minDate</var> and default value set to today</h2>

    <p>The <var>minDate</var> parameter is set to <samp>today</samp> to set the lower limit to the current day and the default value is set to <samp>today</samp> so that this is the value by default.</p>

    <div class="demo extract">
      <p>Date :
        <xt:use types="text" label="MinDateToday" param="filter=date;minDate=today">today</xt:use>
      </p>
    </div>

    <h2>Example with <var>minDate</var> and <var>maxDate</var> set to define an interval</h2>

    <p>The default date syntax must match the format defined in the <var>date_region</var>, which is not necessarily the format defined for the XML output with <var>date_format</var>.</p>

    <div class="demo extract">
      <p>Date (with min and max):
        <xt:use types="text" label="MinMaxDate" param="filter=date;minDate=01/09/2013;maxDate=31/10/2013"/>
      </p>
    </div>

    <h2>Example with a default date set</h2>

    <p>The default date syntax must match the format defined in the <var>date_region</var>, which is not necessarily the format defined for the XML output with <var>date_format</var>.</p>

    <div class="demo extract">
      <p id="x-Todate">Date :
        <xt:use types="text" label="DateWithDefault" param="filter=date">12/12/1999</xt:use>
      </p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
